This recommendation defines five confidentiality modes of operation for use with an underlying
symmetric key block cipher algorithm: Electronic Codebook (ECB), Cipher Block Chaining
(CBC), Cipher Feedback (CFB), Output Feedback (OFB), and Counter (CTR). Used with an
underlying block cipher algorithm that is approved in a Federal Information Processing Standard
(FIPS), these modes can provide cryptographic protection for sensitive, but unclassified,
computer data.
KEY WORDS: Computer security; cryptography; data security; block cipher; encryption;
Federal Information Processing Standard; mode of operation.
bit strings; the requirements on the lengths of the bit strings vary according to the mode:
For the ECB and CBC modes, the total number of bits in the plaintext must be a multiple of the
block size, b; in other words, for some positive integer n, the total number of bits in the plaintext
must be nb. The plaintext consists of a sequence of n bit strings, each with bit length b. The bit
strings in the sequence are called data blocks, and the plaintext is denoted P1, P2,…, P .n
For the CFB mode, the total number of bits in the plaintext must be a multiple of a parameter,
denoted s, that does not exceed the block size; in other words, for some positive integer n, the
total number of bits in the message must be ns. The plaintext consists of a sequence of n bit
strings, each with bit length s. The bit strings in the sequence are called data segments, and the
plaintext is denoted P#
1, P#
2,…, P#
.n
For the OFB and CTR modes, the plaintext need not be a multiple of the block size. Let n and u
denote the unique pair of positive integers such that the total number of bits in the message is
(n-1)b+u, where 1≤ u≤ b. The plaintext consists of a sequence of n bit strings, in which the bit
length of the last bit string is u, and the bit length of the other bit strings is b. The sequence is
denoted P1, P2,…, Pn-1, P* , and the bit strings are called data blocks, although the last bit string